# DPL-SVM

Brain networks have gained increasing recognition as potential biomarkers in mental health studies, but there are limited approaches that can leverage complex  brain networks for accurate classification. Our goal is to develop a novel Bayesian Support Vector Machine (SVM) approach that incorporates high-dimensional networks as covariates and is able to overcome limitations of existing penalized methods. 
Methods: We develop a novel Dirichlet process mixture of double exponential priors on the coefficients in the Bayesian SVM model that is able to perform feature selection and uncertainty quantification, by pooling information across edges to determine differential sparsity levels in an unsupervised manner.  We develop different versions of the model that incorporates static and dynamic connectivity features, as well as an integrative analysis that jointly includes features from multiple scanning sessions. We perform classification of intelligence levels using resting state fMRI data from the Human Connectome Project (HCP), and a second Attention Deficiency Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) classification task. 
Results Our results clearly reveal the considerable greater classification accuracy under the proposed approach over state-of-the-art methods. The multi-session analysis results in the highest classification accuracy in the HCP data analysis. 
Conclusion: We provide concrete evidence that the novel Bayesian SVMs provides an unsupervised and automated approach for network-based classification, that results in considerable improvements over penalized methods and parametric Bayesian approaches. \underline{Significance:} Our work is one of the first to conclusively demonstrate the advantages of a Bayesian SVM in network-based classification of mental health outcomes, and the importance of multi-session network analysis.
